= lossfully

Smartly generate transcoded (lossy or otherwise) versions of your main music
library. 

== Examples

This is not your average, "drag a bunch of folders on me and press go"
audio converter.  You need to write a file that points to your library
and describes how you want to generate a second library.  Let's start
with:

    require 'lossfully'

    Lossfully.generate '~/share/music/' => '~/share/music_lossy' do 
      encode '.ogg'
    end 

That will copy everything from ~/share/music to ~/share/music_lossy,
encoding all of the non-vorbis audio files to vorbis.  So far, this is
something any of those GUI programs can do.  But maybe you don't want
to convert your lossy formats into oggs, lest the gods of information
theory smite you for your transcoding wickedness.  Well, no problem.
This converts any wav, flac, or wv files found into ogg, but copies
the rest without modification:

    Lossfully.generate '~/share/music/' => '~/share/music_lossy' do 
      encode :lossless => '.ogg'
    end 

But maybe this new library is going on your portable device, so you
can't take all of your music and you need to shrink some of the lossy
files, too.  How about just taking the songs from a playlist, and
reencoding the lossy files that have an average bitrate over 192 kbps:

    Lossfully.generate '~/share/music/awesome.m3u' => '~/share/music_lossy' do 
      encode :lossless => ['.ogg', 4] # use quality 4 for the encoding
      encode [:lossy, 192] => ['.ogg', 4]
    end 

You see, where this is going, right?  Maybe something like:

    Lossfully.generate '~/share/music/awesome.m3u' => '~/share/music_lossy' do 
      clobber :rename
      threads 2
      remove_missing true

      skip /\.cue/
      skip /\.jpg/

      encode :lossless => 'flac'
      encode [:ogg, 192] => ['.ogg', 4]
      encode [:mp3, 300] => ['.mp3', -192.2]
      encode :lossy => 'ogg'
    end 

For more details, check out the documentation of Lossfully::Generator.

== Requirements

* A copy of sox must be found in your path, which is what actually
  does the transcoding.  There is currently no check to see if your
  version of sox is compiled with LAME (support for MP3s, etc).  When
  confronted with audio files that sox can't handle, Lossfully might
  treat them as nonaudio files, skip them silently, or crash.  Who
  knows.

* Lots of audio files.

== Install

* gem install lossfully

== Author

Original author: Don March <don@ohspite.net>

== License

Copyright (C) 2011 Don March.

Licensed under the GNU General Public License. 

Lossfully is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.
 
Lossfully is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
